# Bellabeat-Case-Study-
Capstone project for the Google Data Analytics professional certification. This project involved analyzing Fitbit data to understand user patterns and behaviors. These insights were then used to provide high level marketing recs to help Bellabeat unlock their growth potential.  
# Background
Bellabeat is a high-tech manufacturer of health-focused products for women. They are a successful small company looking to become a larger player in the global smart device market. The company has invested in traditional advertising media, such as radio, out-of-home billboards, print, and television, but focuses on digital marketing extensively. Bellabeat invests year-round in Google Search, maintaining active Facebook and Instagram pages, and consistently engages consumers on Twitter. Additionally, Bellabeat runs video ads on YouTube and display ads on the Google Display Network to support campaigns around key marketing dates. Cofounder and Chief Creative Officer of Bellabeat, Urška Sršen, believes that analyzing smart device fitness data could help unlock new growth opportunities for the company
# This report walks through
- Description of data sources used
- Summary of the business task
- Documentation of any cleaning or manipulation of data
- Summary of the analysis
- Visualizations and key findings
- High-level content recommendations based on analysis performed
# Data 
- [Fitbit Fitness Tracker Data](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/arashnic/fitbit): This dataset generated by respondents to a distributed survey via Amazon Mechanical Turk between 03.12.2016-05.12.2016. Thirty eligible Fitbit users consented to the submission of personal tracker data, including minute-level output for physical activity, heart rate, and sleep monitoring. It includes information about daily activity, steps, and heart rate that can be used to explore users’ habits.
# Business task summary 
Analyze trends and patterns in how consumers use non Bellabeat smart devices and gain insights that can be applied to the Bellabeat customer base. Use the Fitbit data provided to gather insights and provide high level marketing recommendations for one Bellabeat product to the team.  
# Stakeholders
- Urška Sršen: Cofounder and Chief Creative Officer of Bellabeat
- Sando Mur: Mathematician and Bellabeat’s cofounder
# Bellabeat Products
- Primary Focus: Leaf (Classic wellness tracker) 
- Secondary tool: Bellabeat app
# Questions guiding the analysis
- What are some trends in smart device usage? 
- How could these trends apply to Bellabeat customers? 
- How could these trends help influence Bellabeat marketing strategy? 
# The following datasets were selected for this project
- minuteSleep_merged
- weightLogInfo_merged
- dailyActivty_merged

These datasets were selected because they provided sufficient information to address the business task about analyzing smart device usage – specifically related to user behavior trends and how engaged they are with the available features. I opted to utilize datasets from March-April 2016 (1 month of the data provided) as the primary focus for analysis. This dataset contained sufficient information to track user behaviors across 3 wellness features and identify meaningful trends and pattern without added complexity. 
# Tools
- EXCEL
-  SQL
# Data Cleaning
Data cleaning and pre-processing were handled using Excel. The following cleaning tasks were performed across all datasets
- Checked for missing values
- Reviewed and appropriately formatted column data types 
- Checked for duplicate entries 

split timestamp columns into separate date and time columns for the following datasets
- minuteSleep_merged
- weightLogInfo_merged
# Analysis 
- Activity: To understand the activity levels of users who collected their Fitbit data. I wanted to examine how active the users that wore their Fitbit daily were. This analysis explored users’ activity patterns, categorized users based on their activity levels (very, moderately or less active) and examined their activity behavior between the weekdays and the weekends.
- Sleep x Activity: Get an understanding of users sleep and activity behavior. Were the users who tracked sleep more active than those who did not? I examined how many users tracked their sleep, how much sleep they were getting on average and if sleep behaviors on the weekends and the weekdays differed
- Weightx Activity x Sleep: In this analysis, I wanted to understand how users that engaged with the weight tracking feature, engaged with the rest of the Fitbit tracking ecosystem (activity and sleep). I examined who were the users that tracked weight data and examined their behavioral patterns compare to those who did not use this feature at all.
# Key Findings 
